Good morning everyone. Thank you all for joining the first session of today. You're at the
software defined storage dev room. We'll have storage talks throughout the day until I think
seven tonight. Fabio is here to start with his first talk. Enjoy. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Yeah, welcome everybody. I'm Fabio. My colleague Salman was supposed to be as well. Unfortunately,
he couldn't make it, which is really a pity because he's the guy who actually built most of
this stuff. So yeah, but now you've got me. So yeah. Well, I'm going to talk about Observice
a few months, what it is and what we built it and how we use it essentially.
Before doing that, I just want to give you a little bit of a context on what is Observice in
general and what it is used. I cannot have a feeling that not a lot of people know about it.
So Observice is effectively a patchy HFS compliant distributed file system. So the code base was
forked out of the patchy HFS and we made a couple of different changes over the course of the years.
Some significant, some less significant, but ultimately there is mostly an architectural
change and also some security differences between what is a patchy HFS and Observice.
Ultimately, the APIs are the same. So the clients are compatible. So if you look at the
actual implementation architecture of Observice, you can actually recognize some of the
processes, some of the entities that you can also find in a patchy HFS. The difference is that
the behave is slightly different. So in HFS and Observice you have the name notes. Those are
responsible for interacting with the clients knowing the state of the file system, responding
to the clients, giving access to the files and so on. The difference between what is a patchy HFS
and Observice is that Observice, we took the metadata information, so the structural file
system directories where the blocks are located, permissions and so on, and we moved it outside
the memory of the of the name note process into the into what we call RONDB, which is essentially
a distributed in-memory database that was forked out of MySQL and DB cluster.
Specifically, MySQL and DB cluster, MySQL and DB cluster, if you're not familiar, is not a cluster
of MySQL, but it's actually a different storage layer as well. So it's basically a distributed
in-memory layer that basically stores the processed data, and you can do like really nice things.
You can do like scaled up and down online. You can do upgrades and stuff like this,
and it's in memory, so it's extremely fast. So moving this metadata information from the
actual names on to the database allows us to basically have effectively stateless
name-node dumps of S. So we can have as many as we want. We can take them down. We can
stuff new ones, allows us to basically be way more flexible in terms of operations,
in terms of management of the entire file system. On the bottom part, we have to say
data management layer. Here we have process like the data nodes, right? It's the same concept in
HFS. Data nodes are responsible for receiving streams of data from clients and storing them
in local file system, and then give it back essentially, right? To deal with that kind of
processes. Here we actually made some notifications, some architectural changes, in a sense that
depending on where you deploy OpsFS, depending on whether you're deploying on-prem or in the
cloud, you can actually decide to store the actual blocks on normal disks, like on the machines,
but you can actually store them also on the cloud object stores. So you can store them on
S3, you can store them on GCS, you can store them on Azure, Block Storage, and so on. So the data
nodes themselves also become stateless essentially, right? And in this case, they act, they have two
roles. They have a role of basically, yeah, not breaking the protocol essentially of the
HFS protocol client, and also interacting as a cache, right? So every time you write something
and then this is flushed down to the storage layer, so to the object stores, but it's also
cached into the data node process themselves, so that if the clients keep writing and reading
the same files, then obviously you don't have to go to the object stores, improving performance quite
a lot. And while the last changes we made around security, and we're going to talk about a little
bit later, but essentially that's OpsFL in a nutshell. Where it is used? Well, OpsFL is
used as part of the broader platform which is called OpsWorx. OpsWorx is essentially a data
platform for machine learning. It allows you to basically provide a bunch of different things
which probably you're not interested in, to basically manage what we call features in machine
learning. So essentially, you take a bunch of data for a bunch of different data sources, you
extract signals to train a model on, and then you're basically storing those signals because
the feature engineering process, the signal extraction process is quite compute intensive,
so you want to store them and reuse them across multiple models and so on. And we have a dual
system architecture, we have offline data for more like training new models and doing like
batch inference, and then we have some online data for doing real-time operations. The OpsFL
part is actually this, it's powering the offline feature store part, which is basically saying
store all the data, historical data across many, many years across more models that is being used
for training additional models and so on. Now, the problem that we're facing and the reason we
started working on the on the on the on the fuels process then for OpsFS is the following.
So the entire platform, the OpsFL feature store platform stands basically in between two different
worlds, should we say, right? So on the other side we have like more traditional data engineering
world where we have like application like Spark, Flink, maybe Beam and so on, which they have been
built from day one essentially, supporting the OpsFS, like the HFS API, supporting the OpsFS
API as well, right? So you can plug it in and they work essentially, right? On the other side,
on the consumer side of the platform, well you have the entire data science world, right? And
that's mostly basically built on top of Python libraries and you know, like they have been built
relying on the fact that it is a log of our system and they don't necessarily interact with these
different systems, whether it's Apache CFS, but also they don't maybe interact even with like
object store or stuff like this, right? They only maybe read data from a local fast system, right?
So we can actually have, if you take the libraries on the left, so if you take the libraries that
are, let's say, data science library and generally the science processes, we can actually have, you
know, two separate scenarios, right? We have a scenario where the libraries actually support
what's called like Liby HFS. Liby HFS is essentially a wrapper for the, it's a JNI wrapper for the
clients for the fast system and that allows us basically to actually interact with the fast system
from a bunch of different libraries like PyArrow, Pandas and a bunch more actually do support
reading from the, reading from HFS or OpsFS through the Liby HFS library. The problem is
that even this scenario still requires access to a JVM, right? And in a world of their science where,
you know, people do, like used to do like pip install a library and that then looks like a bunch of,
like zip file and extracting on your local laptop, you know, configuring the JVM, bringing down the
JVM, bringing down the OpsFS clients or HFS clients, it's quite, it's quite cumbersome, right?
So that, that's kind of, it works but it's not the ideal case scenario, right? The other kind of
libraries or tools that are essentially in the other campus, say, are tools that do not support
Liby HFS at all. So one of the functionalities that you have in OpsFORX is basically, well,
I want to clone a Git repository in OpsFORX so that we can actually run it and, you know, you can't
just run Git on top of HFS or OpsFS, right? So there isn't really like a nice solution there.
And so we started working on implementing a FuseFile system for OpsFS and we actually built it on top
of some of the existing work that is open source and it's out there. All the work that we built on
top is also open source. So the libraries and the entire application is written in Go. So that obviously
removes the need for the JVM and it's built on basically three different projects. The first one
is the FuseLibratesOff, so implemented interface for the FuseFile system. The second one is the
OpsFS Go client, which is actually built on the HFS project from Collymark, which essentially
implements the entire protocol for communicating with the HFS or OpsFS but using Go, right? So you
can actually interact with the file system without the need of the JVM and then basically bring everything
together in the OpsFS Go mount project, which is actually a forked from a project that Microsoft
stopped working on, the HFS mount project. By the time we forked and started working on it,
it was pretty much a POC. I think it was only allowing like read operation or something
and then some on the team kind of expanded really nicely to be able to support much more.
Now, the implementation of this solution actually has a bunch of different challenges
and there are two essentially group of challenges, right? One is the API difference, what is the
API that OpsFS and HFS actually provide and what the API that, you know, the POSIX API that
are required by tools like Git and so on. And then the second one is the different,
complete different security model, right? So we're going to look at how we bridge the gap between the
two in the implementation essentially, right? So the first part is HFS is append only, right? So
when you create a file, you cannot go in the middle of the file and add additional content,
right? You can only append things to the file, right? And so this doesn't work if you open
Veeam and you, you know, editing stuff around, then you can't actually just, you know,
like write directly to HFS OpsFS. As I said, it doesn't support random writes,
it does not support multiple writers. So when you open a file for write, you actually get the
list on the file and you have the only one that can actually write there, right? And nobody else
can actually write, which is not the behavior that you expect on, yeah, like from the POSIX API.
The other aspect is the block size is quite huge. So that's like, you know, the blocks on
OpsFS and HFS are configurable. You can make it as small as possible, but like the default
behavior is to be quite big. It's like 6428 megabytes. Because the axis button and the
write buttons make it that, it's much more performant to do that. And then we're going to talk
about the security model in a second, right? So how does, how does the system work, right?
So we have two scenarios, essentially. We have read scenario, read only mode, or like read and
write scenario. For the read only mode, it's actually quite trivial. What basically happens
actually, I can show you this diagram. I don't know if you can actually see from the back.
But essentially what happens is that the process actually talks to the OpsFS
fuse mount and asks, I want to read this file. Because the API from HFS and OpsFS allow you
to basically, you know, do six and read and stuff like this. They are compatible. We can just forward
the request to the remote storage essentially, right? So you open a file, you open a file,
you read a set amount of bytes from a set amount of position. That is mapped to operations directly
in OpsFS. So that's, yeah, pretty, pretty, pretty trivial to implement.
The writing scenario is a little bit more complicated for the reasons I was mentioning earlier.
So at the i level, what happens is that the remote file gets copied on the local file system.
And we write it in a staging area. And so the processes like the Linux processes are actually
going to write to these, to these like staging replica of the file. And then when either the
file is flushed or the file is closed, then we actually upload the file back into the remote
storage. So it looks like a little bit like this. You open the file and we open the file.
You actually get back, you don't get, we don't download the file immediately, even if you ask for
writing and open the file in writing. And the most, like, the reason is people are lazy essentially,
right? In the sense of like when they open a file, like you say, you want to check out,
you want to look at the file, you know, you might have opened Vim and open a file. And then at that
point, you know, you don't want to write anything, but you have opened it, read and write. Because
file and obfuscation are generally pretty large, we don't want to, you know, keep downloading
random files for absolute, you know, reason, right? So what basically happens is that we delayed
download the file until the first write comes in. When the first write comes in, the write is
intercepted. And we basically, the first thing we do is basically download the file into the,
into the, into the staging area. Well, from there, we can actually do the operations, right?
Now, all the operations that happen, like all the read operation, all the writes operation,
do not go to the, to the, to the remote storage anymore, but they actually act on the local
version of the file. And, you know, this allows us to basically, you know, write random stuff at
a random point in time, so random place in the, in the file, allows us to basically have multiple
writers writing files, multiple readers and so on. So they all write as it was, like a local,
a local file essentially, which, which it is, right? What happens is at some point, someone
was going to call a sync or, you know, call a sync and then close the file. And what's going to
happen is that when the sync happens, then the file is then back uploaded into the, into the
remote storage, right? And that basically allows us to, yeah, add the file in, in OpsFS. When the
last client, the last write client actually closes file, then we can actually remove the file from
the staging directory, right? So if you have like five different clients working on it, and then,
you know, one removes it, then we can let the last one closes it, then we can remove the, the,
the file from the, from the, from the staging, from the staging directory.
Now, the last part, the last difference in terms of like,
compatibility between what the, what the, what the, you know, OpsFS and HFS API are, and the local
file system are. Can I take a question a little bit later? Okay. That's fine. Okay, thanks.
Yeah, so in, in that regard is, yeah, so the way this security works on, on OpsFS is slightly
different than if you're familiar with HFS. You might be familiar with Kerberos. In Opsfs, we
don't use Kerberos, we use certificates. So every user in the platform gets a certificate or actually
gets more than the one, but it doesn't matter. Essentially, in the certificate itself, you know,
we have the information about who the user is, and every time the user needs to do an operation
with the, with the, with the file system and any other service in Opsfs, present a certificate,
and the certificate is obviously verified based on the chain of trust that is established within
Opsfs deployment. So this basically what happens at the high level, right? So every time the Opsfs
fuse mount needs to talk to the, to the Opsfs remote storage, it has to present a certificate
essentially. And this is something that we, we control in the way that we actually use the
Opsfs fuse mount in, in Opsfs works. When we set up the mount point, we actually, you know,
make sure that the mount point is set up with the certificates for that specific user so that,
you know, if I, if I need access to a specific directory from a Python library, Opsfs set up
the mount point and, and provide provision the certificate for, for, for my user so that someone
else cannot, cannot necessarily use the same mount point and the same, and the same, and the same
certificates. So this is controlled at the application level, not the, not necessarily the storage layer.
All the operations that happen on this side, while the authenticated based on the certificate,
the problem happens from, let's say, the Opsfs fuse mount to the, to the user side, to the,
to the, let's say, Linux processes essentially, right? So what happens here is the following,
so there is a, there is a mapping going on between the users in Opsfs and the user on the machine,
right? The problem we, like the problem we had, the problem that, like this setup has is that you
end up having a lot of users on Opsfs, right? My, our deployments might have, like, you know,
5,000 users all on the same deployment that, you know, results in way more groups than, than
than 5,000. And so we cannot spend time and create them all the users, all the, all the, all the groups
in, on the, on the machines. So the way we actually, the way we actually work in this situation is that
when the Opsfs application needs access to, to, to, to, to, to mount point, a provision that mount
point, it also makes sure it doesn't mount the entire file system, it mounts a specific sub-directory,
and when it mounts a specific sub-directory before mounting it, it provisions the users
that are within, that, that, their own files within that specific, the specific sub-directory.
And the way it knows that is because in Opsfs, directories have a specific meaning,
they are organized in a specific way, and so Opsfs application knows which users are,
have access to specific sub-directory. So before actually, you know, mounting the, the file system,
we actually provision all the user, provision all the groups, and then what basically
Opsfs mount does is that, well, you know, a file here is owned by user Fabio, so there is a,
there is a user on the machine, user Fabio with a specific UID, so the user ID of that file is going
to be the, the same essentially. And again, the, the provision of the user is controlled by the,
by the Opsfs application when they, when they, when it, when it's, it's necessary essentially.
Now, there are a couple of, I would say, unsupported capabilities and things that we plan to address
in the futures, more like limitations essentially. One thing I have supported at the moment are
links, both out and soft links. Opsfs has supported for soft links in the background,
but we never really used them in Opsfs, so we didn't have support here in Opsfs mount either.
The challenge we have is around the users of these caches. Yeah, so essentially, you know, if you,
if you're working with a, with a local file system, the kernel, you know, there's a pretty aggressive,
you know, caching of the data and so on. The problem we have is that Opsfs is a multi-tent
platform, so we have multiple users working on the potential of the same files, and so caching the
files becomes a little bit problematic because if you have two users working on the same file,
then like the different mount points are not going to be able to talk to each other, say, A, there is
something that's changed here, and you need to reflect that in your cache. So at the moment,
the caches are kind of disabled, but we're working on, on, on, on some solution to be able to get
notifications and, and, and figure out that files have changed, right? And the reason,
the reason they don't know is because there's different mount points, because each mount point
is not certificate for that specific user, right? So the users are not sharing the same mount point,
so changes, one user making changes is going to talk to a different mount point, and the user making,
making changes essentially. The other thing that happens, if you, if you, if we go back to the
right operation, when we upload the file, we upload the entire file. So there is no concept of,
you know, uploading a specific block. The, the, the HFS API and the OPSF API does not allow you to
basically say, you know, I know that, like a specific block has changed, I'm going to just replace
that specific block, right? So the, this, this operation, if you're working with very, very
hard files, then, then might become a problem. For the use cases that we use OPSFS mount within the
OPSF platform, this is not a problem. Users are working with, like, small Python applications,
or like generally speaking, smaller files, or when they are dealing with bigger files, they are
dealing more, in more like a, in a, in a read process, not necessarily in a, in a writing,
yeah, not going to end up writing a parquet file in beam, like several gigabytes of parquet files.
So that's kind of it. That's kind of where we, where we stand.
If you have any questions, that's, that's, you know, I can take them now. And thank you very much.
Do you and practice have problems with applications ignoring the return value of close?
The return value of close. No, so the question is, if we have problems with
applications ignoring the return value of close, not at the moment, no. We had,
with the way we use OPSFS mount is basically, we, we, we, we, we mount inside of containers,
for instance, when you're doing, if you're running Jupyter notebooks, or if you're running
great applications on, and we shut down the entire process, usually shut down the entire
container, essentially. Right? So we, when, when, you know, the files gets closed and everything
gets closed, um, shut down the entire mount point, essentially. That's because, not necessarily because
it's necessary, but that's because usually, that's the use, like user experience and that people
have in general. But you can't guarantee that the upload actually worked. You can't guarantee,
come again, sorry. The last step. What happens if the upload file fails? If the upload file fails,
try again, and then eventually, yeah, it's a simple, we give up, yeah.
Yeah.
So it seems that the retro machines that try to write open for writing and write through the same
file independently, so obviously one of them wins and takes a lease and does download the file
modification and upload. Yeah. What happens with other machines, or what does the process that
tries to open the file for writing at the same time and write to each and so on?
In this case, the last right wins. Like that's the problem that we have here, right? It's basically
saying if we have, like multiple machines mounted in the same directory, they can't, like, and we're
writing on the same file. I, the mount point doesn't, doesn't know that, like, you are changing the
same, like my mount point doesn't know that you're changing the same file. So we upload the file,
and then you upload the file as well, and your, your, your right space is essentially wins, essentially.
And then, can we get?
No, nobody's waiting for another one. But I'm like, you end up in like, in, you end up in a
weird situation where I might not be able to see immediately your changes, and so I might be able
to, I might re-resave my file and re-re-reprove my file, so then your changes get, get, get
covered written again. So it becomes a little bit, a bit, a little bit like this. Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Uh, good question. Uh, in general, yes. Um, you might, like, you might not have, like, the security
part of the, we didn't implement the CalBros part of the, the security part. So if, if you have a
secure cluster, then you're probably not going to be able to, to use it. Or, yeah, you, you implement
the CalBros part. Yeah. Yeah. It was a question in the back.
No, there, there, there is, there are processes, yeah, so, yeah, thank you. Uh, the, the question is,
uh, whether or not there are processes sharing the file. Uh, there are processes sharing the file,
but you have, the problem is that you have multiple users writing on, on the same file,
on different processes that do not know about each other.
Yeah.
It's also, you know, it's like the, the, the, the different mount points are, uh, that the,
the question was about the directory metadata. It's also, it's like it's independent with the,
it's independent with each other.
They don't share mount points, no. Yeah. So if you create a file, um, then, yeah, but if you, if you
do a less operation, then we go back to the, to the file system and that is, is, is reflected.
But so, but they're not necessarily relying on the mount point, relying the obfuscates mount,
going back to the, to the, to the, to the remote storage to get the new directory structure and so on.
Yeah.
Um, with this, uh, stage file writing,
yeah.
I mentioned that improves read performance for the client too, right? When it's actually a downloaded
local file and it, do people use that? Like do they do a little write and then just get quick
downloads?
It, it, it does. Um, it does. That's, that's one of the, all that, like that's one of the other,
that's one of the other reasons we kind of, the question, sorry, yeah, sorry.
Uh, the, the question is around the, um, read performance when you're reading a file that you
have, like, uh, like stored locally in the stage directory. Um, it does. Um, we don't have a specific
number, um, but I have like some, like user experience with that. Um, when you have, um,
when you have files that are on, on the remote storage, uh, even if they are, like, especially if
you have smaller files, um, like maybe like a Jupyter notebook, this JSON file, like,
you know, maybe a megabyte maximum or something, um, then it's the, the, the override of going
and fetching it every time. It's, it's quite significant. If you have it locally, it's, it's,
it's much more, uh, you can see it much more reactive.
Yeah, there was a.
I thought you said, uh, you, you delete the station file as soon as you close it.
Yes.
No, but if you, if you, if you, if you, if you have it open, uh, when you, when you keep writing it,
then you, when you read it, you're not going to the, to the remote storage, you're reading from the,
from the local, um, from the local, uh, yeah, from the local, from the local staging directory.
Right. So if you, the only, the only, the only, the only time is, is if you're reading, if you're
doing some read only operations, essentially, then at that point we don't download it, uh, mostly
because, uh, in general, they'll be working with like pretty large files. And so the downloading
process might, might not be necessary, right? Because if you open, let's say a parquet file,
what happens is that you go at the end of the file, you just read the footer to figure out the schema,
figure out where you, you need to go. And if maybe it's like a four gigabytes parquet file,
you don't want to download four gigabytes to read that maybe a couple megabytes of metadata, essentially.
Yeah.
One more.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.